README.md, before:

# Text To Video AI 🔥

Generate video from text using AI

If you wish to add Text to Video into your application, here is an api to create video from text :- https://docs.vadoo.tv/docs/guide/create-an-ai-video

### Youtube Tutorial -> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AXo6VfRUgic

### Medium tutorial -> https://medium.com/@anilmatcha/text-to-video-ai-how-to-create-videos-for-free-a-complete-guide-a25c91de50b8

### Demo Video

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1e440ace-8560-4e12-850e-c532740711e7

### 🌟 Show Support

If you enjoy using Text to Video AI, we'd appreciate your support with a star ⭐ on our repository. Your encouragement is invaluable and inspires us to continually improve and expand Text to Video AI. Thank you, and happy content creation! 🎉

[![GitHub star chart](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/SamurAIGPT/Text-To-Video-AI?style=social)](https://github.com/SamurAIGPT/Text-To-Video-AI/stargazers)

### Steps to run

Run the following steps

```
export OPENAI_KEY="api-key"
export PEXELS_KEY="pexels-key"

pip install -r requirements.text

python app.py "Topic name"
```

Output will be generated in rendered_video.mp4

### Quick Start

Without going through the installation hastle here is a simple way to generate videos from text

For a simple way to run the code, checkout the [colab link](/Text_to_Video_example.ipynb)

To generate a video, just click on all the cells one by one. Setup your api keys for openai and pexels

## 💁 Contribution

As an open-source project we are extremely open to contributions. To get started raise an issue in Github or create a pull request

### Other useful Video AI Projects

[AI Influencer generator](https://github.com/SamurAIGPT/AI-Influencer-Generator)

[AI Youtube Shorts generator](https://github.com/SamurAIGPT/AI-Youtube-Shorts-Generator/)

[Faceless Video Generator](https://github.com/SamurAIGPT/Faceless-Video-Generator)

[AI B-roll generator](https://github.com/Anil-matcha/AI-B-roll)

[AI video generator](https://www.vadoo.tv/ai-video-generator)

[Text to Video AI](https://www.vadoo.tv/text-to-video-ai)

[Autoshorts AI](https://www.vadoo.tv/autoshorts-ai)

[Pixverse alternative](https://www.vadoo.tv/pixverse-ai)

[Hailuo AI alternative](https://www.vadoo.tv/hailuo-ai)

[Minimax AI alternative](https://www.vadoo.tv/minimax-ai)

Commit message:

Fix MoviePy ImageMagick integration and improve captions configuration
1. Fixed MoviePy configuration:
   - Simplified ImageMagick binary path setup
   - Properly imported moviepy.config to resolve module loading issues
   - Set IMAGEMAGICK_BINARY directly to fix Docker compatibility

2. Improved caption generation:
   - Increased default maxCaptionSize from 15 to 40 characters
   - Reduces scene transitions for smoother viewing experience

3. Added build improvements:
   - Updated Docker configuration for ImageMagick
   - Added proper configuration for Docker BuildKit

README.md, after:

# Text To Video AI 🔥

Generate video from text using AI

If you wish to add Text to Video into your application, here is an api to create video from text :- https://docs.vadoo.tv/docs/guide/create-an-ai-video

### Youtube Tutorial -> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AXo6VfRUgic

### Medium tutorial -> https://medium.com/@anilmatcha/text-to-video-ai-how-to-create-videos-for-free-a-complete-guide-a25c91de50b8

### Demo Video

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1e440ace-8560-4e12-850e-c532740711e7

### 🌟 Show Support

If you enjoy using Text to Video AI, we'd appreciate your support with a star ⭐ on our repository. Your encouragement is invaluable and inspires us to continually improve and expand Text to Video AI. Thank you, and happy content creation! 🎉

[![GitHub star chart](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/SamurAIGPT/Text-To-Video-AI?style=social)](https://github.com/SamurAIGPT/Text-To-Video-AI/stargazers)

### Steps to run

Run the following steps

```
export OPENAI_KEY="api-key"
export PEXELS_KEY="pexels-key"

pip install -r requirements.text

python app.py "Topic name"
```

The `python app.py "Topic name"` command runs the `app.py` Python script with a text argument ("Topic name"), which generates a video based on the provided topic. The output will be a file named `rendered_video.mp4`.

### Using Docker (Recommended)

You can also run the application using Docker, which ensures all dependencies are properly installed:

1. Set your API keys in a terminal:
   ```
   export OPENAI_KEY="your-openai-key"
   export PEXELS_KEY="your-pexels-key"
   ```

2. Run using docker-compose:
   ```
   docker-compose up --build
   ```

3. To specify a custom topic:
   ```
   TOPIC="Your Custom Topic" docker-compose up --build
   ```

The generated video will be available as `rendered_video.mp4` in your project directory.

### Quick Start

Without going through the installation hastle here is a simple way to generate videos from text

For a simple way to run the code, checkout the [colab link](/Text_to_Video_example.ipynb)

To generate a video, just click on all the cells one by one. Setup your api keys for openai and pexels

## 💁 Contribution

As an open-source project we are extremely open to contributions. To get started raise an issue in Github or create a pull request

### Other useful Video AI Projects

[AI Influencer generator](https://github.com/SamurAIGPT/AI-Influencer-Generator)

[AI Youtube Shorts generator](https://github.com/SamurAIGPT/AI-Youtube-Shorts-Generator/)

[Faceless Video Generator](https://github.com/SamurAIGPT/Faceless-Video-Generator)

[AI B-roll generator](https://github.com/Anil-matcha/AI-B-roll)

[AI video generator](https://www.vadoo.tv/ai-video-generator)

[Text to Video AI](https://www.vadoo.tv/text-to-video-ai)

[Autoshorts AI](https://www.vadoo.tv/autoshorts-ai)

[Pixverse alternative](https://www.vadoo.tv/pixverse-ai)

[Hailuo AI alternative](https://www.vadoo.tv/hailuo-ai)

[Minimax AI alternative](https://www.vadoo.tv/minimax-ai)
